---
title: Day 7- Saints and Churches and Saints and Churches and Saints (oh and a Castle)
order: 2015-07-20
---

Seeing as how we were supposed to meet up by the bus stop by 8:30 am, most Aggies were getting out of bed at 8:25 sharp, while the braver souls have been jogging since 6:30. After getting underway, we promptly did what we do best and fell immediately asleep.

We arrived in Assisi and received a guided tour of the city, where we saw the Basilica of St. Francis and the Cathedral of St. Clare. It was a very spiritual atmosphere and we saw pilgrims, monks, and nuns everywhere. Pictures weren’t allowed inside the churches, but the interiors were absolutely beautiful and dated from the middle ages. We also saw the Roman temple of the goddess Minerva, which was converted into a church dedicated to the Virgin Mary.

For lunch we climbed to nearly the top of the mountain and had, surprisingly*, Italian food. Next, we split up to explore the castle next door, which dates from the period in which the Pope ruled Assisi. It was like something out of a movie, and had some of the best views of the landscape we’ve seen yet. The castle was also unexpectedly well-ventilated, which definitely helped as we were all swimming in our own sweat by then.

After descending the mountain, we shopped for a bit, and then drove to the Basilica of Santa Maria di los Angeli, the other of Assisi’s famous Basilicas, which contained the original church restored by Saint Francis as well as the location of his death. We were all able to appreciate the churches, which combined well over a thousand years of art, history, culture, and faith to create awe-inspiring spaces for the faithful who attend services as well as the thousands of pilgrims who come to Assisi every year.

After getting home, finishing up some homework, and eating dinner, we all continued our tradition by getting our daily gelato. Whether by seeing amazing architecture or simply bonding over a game, today was an eventful day, impacting each of us in a variety of ways.

Buona notte!

Alexis Maldonado & Aaron Rosé