---
title: "Day 2: Passive Aggression and Planes that Can’t Fly"
order: 2015-07-15
---

After the long flights yesterday the sun was up far before the Aggies this morning. Probably one of the largest jogging groups this city has ever seen blessed the eyes of the locals this morning with short-shorts galore. Post run, many of us grabbed a bite to eat at local coffee shops and tried our first sips of real Italian cappuccinos after frantically fumbling over our words and using large gestures just trying to order a sandwich.  Luckily, we weren’t lost for long! Rossella, our savior, saved the day with a quick lesson in Italian for Dummies.  We had a very delicious and traditional Italian lunch consisting of prosciutto and cantaloupe. We were supposed to jump right into our lessons but global warming was not kind to us this week and so we decided to take a shot at siestas. Unlike some of the Italian phrases, those seemed to come naturally! Some of us decided to skip the nap, however, to explore the city on our own and enjoy the views from the city center. Before dinner we played what seemed to be a simple card game that turned out to give all of us a little insight into cultural bias. As it turns out, we were not allowed to talk and were given different sets of rules (representing our different backgrounds).  Long story short: a simple game of cards turned into silent arguments and an abundance of passive aggressive behavior.  We learned that we all have our own set of ‘looking glasses’ that affect how we see the world, and if we can understand that, we can better appreciate the culture of others.  We then transitioned to an activity meant to help us better understand our own strengths.  Using a personality test we had all completed prior to the trip, we discussed the benefits of every kind of leadership style and how there is no one perfect set of skills that define a leader.  Our final activity took a turn for the worst (not worse, we googled it) and I mean plane crash worst! In small groups, we were tasked with ranking a variety of items based on their importance in the event of a plane crash in the northern wilderness.  This proved quite interesting due to our difference in outdoor skills, but once again we were faced with the challenge of conveying our viewpoints and coming to a consensus. Dinner was fantastic, as usual, because tonight our taste buds were blessed with pesto pasta, chicken, and fried potato. And no night in Italia would be complete without the oh-so-sweet and better-than-ice cream taste of gelato from the famous Coco Palm Gelateria (Like them on Facebook.) Thanks, and buonanotte!

Taylor Welch & Jacob Hartzer