---
layout: post
title:   Online Multi-IMU Calibration Using Visual-Inertial Odometry
author: Jacob Hartzer
thumbnail: /assets/img/multi_imu.png
date: 2023-10-19
description:
tags:
categories:
related_posts: false
---

This research focuses on the implementation of an online multi-IMU calibration filter that utilizes visual-inertial odometry as its main framework. Many existing multi-IMU filters require synchronized IMU in order to combine the measurements into a single "virtual" IMU that can be used in the typical Kalman filter prediction step. However, this work looks at unsynchronized IMU that have various error levels. Additionally, this works considers IMU that have large baseline distances, and therefore are affected by angular accelerations. Given these conditions, it is not easily possible to fuse measurements into virtual measurements for a prediction step, and must rather be separately considered in update steps.

# Theory

IMU error model

Acceleration change of frame formula

Combined measurement model.

The bulk of the work is divided into two forms of Kalman updates for IMU measurements: non-calibration and calibration.

## Kalman Update

# Simulation



# Experimentation

Testing was performed using a bar of 8020 with multiple mounted IMU in addition to a camera. This allowed for multiple sensor configurations and rapid recalibration testing with different sensor configurations. The specific sensors tested were:

- IMUs:
    - Vectornav VN300
    - Vectornav VN100
    - FDISystems DETA10
- Cameras:
    - Basler Ace acA1920-40uc

# Code

The simulation and experimental code are part of the open-source [EKF-CAL](https://github.com/unmannedlab/ekf-cal) repository.

# Citation

A preprint of the published paper can be found on [arXiv](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.12411),
the slides are available [here]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/pdf/2023-MFI.pdf),
and the conference paper can be cited as follows

```bibtex
@inproceedings{2022_Multi_Cal,
  author    = {Hartzer, Jacob and Saripalli, Srikanth},
  booktitle = {2023 IEEE International Conference on Multisensor Fusion and Integration (MFI)},
  title     = {Online Multi-IMU Calibration Using Visual-Inertial Odometry},
  year      = {2023},
  pages     = {},
  doi       = {},
}
```




